# Model and Data Requirement Validation Component

The Model and Data Requirement Validation Component ensures that the building model (IFC) and additional information (i.e., GIS data sets or supporting product data) that is to be checked on regulation compliance is of a good enough quality to be subject to such checks.  

The Model and Data Requirement Validation Component executes several gatekeeper checks, which can be roughly split into three parts: 
- Validation of IFC Models on IFC validity: Will ensure any IFC models provided to the ACCORD Cloud Architecture are valid IFC models with regards to one of buildingSMART’s published schemas. This is required because any invalid models will not be able to be parsed and understood by ACCORD components. 
    - BuildingSMART has been offering their IFC Validation tool. API documentation can be found at https://dev.validate.buildingsmart.org/api/swagger-ui/
- Validation of IFC Models against IDS specifications: Will ensure that IFC models provided to the ACCORD Cloud Architecture meet the requirements of the required IDS files. This is required to ensure that sufficient information is present in the IFC file to allow compliance checking against it to take place. For IDS checking, two tools have been used:
    - Solibri Cloud Checking: IDS checks for Solibri are stored in cset files and can be invoked through the Solibri Cloud Checking API (Solibri Checking as a Service).14 Any cset file can be provided as payload to the API using an array of URIs. This has been successfully tested using the orchestrator component (in this case FME) and returns the check results both directly in JSON or in BCF (1.0, 2.0, 2.1 or 3.0). API documentation can be found at https://checking-api-docs.solibri.com/
    - Clearly.BIM: IDS checks for Clearly.BIM have to be configured in the Clearly.BIM backend and can be invoked through API based on their checkUuid15. It is not yet possible to dynamically provide an IDS definition as payload to the API.  This has been successfully tested using the orchestrator component (in this case FME) and returns the check results both directly in JSON or in BCF. API documentation can be found at https://hub.clearly.app/bim/api/docs (OpenAPI) and https://hub.clearly.app/bim/docs (GraphQL)
- Validation of additional GIS Data: Will ensure that any submitted GIS data conforms to agreed GIS specifications and profiles.
    - Although initially planned, there have not been concrete requests from the use cases to create checks that use external additional GIS data (e.g. a check for maximum building height that retrieves the value for the maximum building height in a specific location from an external WFS service with zoning plans. Therefore, no explicit validation of GIS Data has been executed during the project.
